# PeopleTools_OAUTH
Using PeopleCode and Java to implement oauth2 security in PeopleSoft.

I have recently come into  situation where we were wanting to implement a web service to remove a users access to another system when they were terminated within PeopleSoft HCM.  Currently we are using a flat file, which has been causing us some issues, not to mention the time delay. The other system does support Soap web calls and basic authentication, but that functionality is going away in the near future and the only other way to do this was to use Oauth2 and Rest calls.  I've worked with Rest calls numerous times in the past and they are fairly easy to implement, however PeopleSoft does not support Oauth2 until PeopleTools 8.58, and even then it's on a limited scale.

I started to do some research and combined methods from many different pages (including, but certainly not limited to Jim Marion, aka the PeopleSoft developer G-d).  I was able to get the basic connection working, but then I ran into additional issues with delivered PeopleSoft "features" that would override my content-type and cache-control values so I was forced to lean on Java (a language I've never used before, although it is similar to C, so I was able to find my way through it with the help of the all powerful Google). I will say, when I got the token I was expecting back and I was able to use it in another web call to pull back a users status, I'm not going to lie, I jumped up and ran around the house (my wife, kids and dog are currently packing their bags to move out since they think I may be a little crazy).
